preorder binary tree

un recorrido visita de manera sistematica los nodos de un arbol

en un recorrido preorden un nodo se visita antes que sus descendientes

aplicacion: imprrimir un documento estructurado.




inorder: left -> center -> right
preorder center -> left -> right
postorder left -> right -> center

you can use these to check whether or not an arithmetic expression is correct

implementacion: estructura enlazada

un nodo se representa por un objecto que almacena

elemento
nodo padre
secuencia de nodos hijos

los objetos de nodo implementan el TAD posicion

not all trees are binary

when you have a regular non-binary tree you gotta create a list/array of references to another node, up to you.

representaciones de arboles binarios con arreglos
store the root toward the beginning and the children toward the end.

rank(root) = 0
si el nodo es el hijo izquierdo del parent, rank(node) = 2
rank(parent(node)) +1
si el nodo es el hijo derecho del parent(node), rank(node) = 2
rank(parent(node)) + 2

thing about implementing binary trees as arrays, you're gonna need to define an *EMPTY* element for when a node has no children.
this way we can reliably read the binary tree within the array and just implement it as is, if we need anything bigger, realloc 

binary search trees are logarithmic if you didn't know by the way.
mapas ordenados: las claves se suponen totalmente ordenadas: los elementos se almacenan en orden por sus claves, esto nos permite responder consultas del tipo los vecinos mas cercanos.

hashmaps: based on a distinct element determine position on the array.

it's the way we naturally search words on a dictionary, first letter, then second letter, then third letter until we find the word we're looking for. 


pick a word that divides the dictionary into two. 

a professional programmer is the one who gets to sell one of their programs. 

let's pretend we want to fill up a binary tree by manually inputting each of the data nodes in. we should exchange the values of the head and children nodes.
a self balancing tree will always have the middle element up at the top, the moment we write C into ABC, B switches place with A to become the new head sirce it's the new middle.

oh fucky sakey




busqueda en tablas (vuelos)

x = (origin, destination, date, time).

subMap(k1, k2) busca todos los vuelos para un rango de tiempo dado

por ejemplo: para k1 = (REL, AEP, 05Mayo, 09:30), y x2 = (REL, AEP, 06Mayo, 20:00) devuelve:




AVL TREES



balancing binary trees, how the fuck

en la practica, la modificacion de un arbol T causada por una operacion de reestructuracion de trinodos se puede implementar mediante el analisis de casos como una rotacion unica o como una doble rtacion.

when you insert things in order your tree is going to be unbalanced
when you insert things randomly, it's mostly going to remain balanced
??????

who thought of this?
